[doc] Entries about settings and options (and shared libraries) (#9300)
conan-io/conan-center-index: docs/packaging_policy.md

- In case of needing those binaries to use them as a "build require" for some library, we will consider following the approach of adding it
  as a system recipe (`<build_require>/system`) and making those binaries available in the CI machines (if the license allows it).

## Settings

All recipes should list the four settings `os`, `arch`, `compiler` and `build_type` so Conan will compute a different package ID
for each combination. There are some particular cases for this general rule:
 * **Recipes for _header only_ libraries** might omit the `settings` attibute, but in any case they should add
  
   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      self.info.header_only()
   ```

 * **Recipes that provide applications** (`b2`, `cmake`, `make`,...) that are generally used as a _build requires_, must list all

>    the settings as well, but they should remove the `compiler` one in the corresponding method unless the recipe provides also

Reviewer: this statement needs to be checked carefully. it might be too strong a statement, confusing newcomers.
probably, compiler setting cannot be always safely removed, especially for Visual Studio, where DLL like `msvcrt<version>.dll` is linked to the executable, resulting in different binaries. or it needs a special treatment to ensure static runtime (MT) is used.
on linux, perhaps at least `compiler.libcxx` sub-setting matters, introducing a reference to `libstdc++.so` or `libc++.so`, in case of C++ builds.
it can be safely removed for many tools like `meson` or `automake` where are just scripts and no binaries.

Author: I'm only trying to document what was decided around this issue: https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/issues/3157. Of course, there are runtime dependencies that we are not taking into account and are not modeled in the Conan settings.

For these reasons we try to use the _most_ compatible runtime deps possible, that's why we use Ubuntu 16.04 in Linux and we build the configurations in order, providing the binaries with the oldest compiler always (in Linux, Windows or Mac).

Windows binaries require redistributables for VS2017, and Linux ones require glibc from Ubuntu 16.04. So far, these requirements should be satisfied in 99% of the machines that are consuming Conan packages and working on C++ projects, don't you think so?

   libraries that are consumed by other packages:

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      del self.settings.compiler
   ```
   
   Removing the `compiler` setting reduces the number of configurations generated by the CI, reducing the time and workload and, at the
   same time, demonstrates the power of Conan behind the package ID logic.

   > Note.- Intentionally, the `build_type` setting should not be removed from the package ID in this case. Preserving this
   > setting will ensure that the package ID for Debug and Release configurations will be different and both binaries can be

>    > available in the Conan cache at the same time. This enable consumers to switch from one configuration to the other in case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > available in the Conan cache at the same time. This enable consumers to switch from one configuration to the other in the case
```

>    > the want to run or to debug those executables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > they want to run or to debug those executables.
```

>    > available in the Conan cache at the same time. This enable consumers to switch from one configuration to the other in case
>    > the want to run or to debug those executables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > available in the Conan cache at the same time. This enable consumers to switch from one configuration to the other in the case
   > they want to run or to debug those executables.
```

## Options

Recipes can list any number of options with any meaning, and defaults are up to the recipe itself. The CI cannot enforce anything
in this direction. However, there are a couple of options that have a special meaning for the CI:

 * `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option. If it is found, it will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

   > Note.- The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will use their defaults
   > (typically `shared=False`). It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter

>    > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library. See [FAQs](faqs.md#how-to-consume-a-graph-of-shared-libraries) for more information.
```

  as a system recipe (`<build_require>/system`) and making those binaries available in the CI machines (if the license allows it).

## Settings

All recipes should list the four settings `os`, `arch`, `compiler` and `build_type` so Conan will compute a different package ID
for each combination. There are some particular cases for this general rule:
 * **Recipes for _header only_ libraries** might omit the `settings` attibute, but in any case they should add
  
   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      self.info.header_only()
   ```

 * **Recipes that provide applications** (`b2`, `cmake`, `make`,...) that are generally used as a _build requires_, must list all
   the settings as well, but they should remove the `compiler` one in the corresponding method unless the recipe provides also
   libraries that are consumed by other packages:

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      del self.settings.compiler
   ```
   
   Removing the `compiler` setting reduce the number of configurations generated by CI, reducing the time and workload and, at the
   same time, demonstrates the power of Conan behind the package ID logic.

>    > Note.- We retain the `build_type` setting to make it possible for the users to _debug_ these installer packages. We considered
>    > removing this settings and it would be possible to compile these packages in _debug_ mode, but if we remove it from the packageID,
>    > the compiled package would override the existing _release_ binary, and it'd be quite inconvenient for the users to compile the
>    > binary every time they need to switch from _debug_ to _release_.

Reviewer 3: I didn't get the meaning of this note the first time I read it, so I am suggesting a full rephrase in case it makes it more clear

```suggestion
   > Note.- Intentionally, the `build_type` setting should not be removed from the package ID in this case. This is done
   to eventually allow users to _debug_ these installer packages.
   > Otherwise, every time installer packages were to be rebuilt switching their build type  between _debug_ and _release_,
   > the compiled package would be overridden and it'd be a quite inconvenient user experience.
```

Author: 👍  I copied it from the existing FAQ. Now I'm proposing a different paragraph, please, review it again. Thanks!

 * `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option, and if it is found it will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

   > Note.- CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will use their defaults
   > (typically `shared=False`). It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library.

 * `header_only` (with values `True` or `False`). If the CI detects this option it will generate all the configurations for the
   value `header_only=False` and add one more configuration with `header_only=True`. It's important to remark that only one
   package will be generated for `header_only=True`, so it is important that it is true _header only_ library, packaging just
   header files (no libraries or executables).

   Recipes with this option, should include the following in the `package_id` method:

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      if self.options.header_only:
         self.info.header_only()
   ```
   

>    to make it clear that when the option is active, the recipe ingnores all the settings and only one packageID is generated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ensuring that, when the option is active, the recipe ignores all the settings and only one package ID is generated.
```

>    to make it clear that when the option is active, the recipe ingnores all the settings and only one packageID is generated.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   to make it clear that when the option is active, the recipe ignores all the settings and only one packageID is generated.
```
